# Pandas Challenge: PyCitySchools

**Student name:** Tania Barrera

---

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Conclusions](#conclusions)
- [References](#references)

---

This repo contains my work for the fourth weekly challenge of the UofT SCS edX Data Bootcamp.

## Summary

The analysis is performed in a Jupyter notebook using python with the `pandas` module. The input data includes math and reading grades for each individual student in a district, as well as data on each school in that district. The analysis includes an overview of the whole district and of each school, the highest and lowest performing schools by percent of students that passed both math and reading, as well as math and reading grades and passing percentage analysis by grade, school spending per student, school size and school type.

Notebook: [PyCitySchools/PyCitySchools_analysis_tsbarr.ipynb](PyCitySchools/PyCitySchools_analysis_tsbarr.ipynb)


## Conclusions

After performing the analysis of the district's schools and the math and reading scores of their students, I can draw several conclusions, including:

1. **District vs Charter:** the school type has an effect on the grades of the students. Charter schools have a higher average score for both math and reading. Also, the percentage of students passing math, reading and both is way higher in charter schools (93.6%, 96.6%, 90.4%, respectively) than in district schools (66.5%, 80.8%, 53.7%, respectively). Another notable detail is that when we look at the performance of the schools by the percentage of students that passed both math and reading, the top 5 schools are all charter schools and the bottom 5 are all district schools.

2. **School size:** we see a big drop in performance in large schools (2000-5000 students) compared to medium (1000-2000 students) and small (less than 1000 students) sized schools. The overall passing percentage in large school is 58.3%, compared to 90.6% in medium schools and 89.9% in small schools. This seems to be mostly affected by math, since the percentage of students that passed this subject is 93.6%, 93.6% and 69.96% in small, medium and large schools respectively, compared to percentage of passing reading which is 96.1%, 96.8% and 82.8% in small, medium and large schools, respectively.

3. **Spending per student:** we also see a drop in overall passing percentage as budget per student increases, with percentage of overall passing going from 90.4% in schools that spend less than $585 per student to 53.5% in schools that spend $645-680 per student.


## References

Data generated by [Mockaroo, LLC](https://mockaroo.com/), (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

Challenge instructions and input file, as well as some code sections that were adapted from the UofT SCS EdX Data Bootcamp class activities:

© 2022 edX Boot Camps LLC. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.

Some other code sections were adapted from other sources, specific explanations are found within the code comments:

| Purpose 	| URL 	|
|------------------------------------	|------------------------------------------	|
| Guide to combine the data into a single dataset 	| https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/version/0.24.0/user_guide/merging.html 	|
| How to create new columns based on other columns 	| https://sparkbyexamples.com/pandas/pandas-add-column-based-on-another-column/	|
| How to use aggregate to create more than one summary column 	| https://stackoverflow.com/a/43897124 	|
| `.aggregate()` documentation 	| https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.aggregate.html 	|
| `.rename()` documentation 	| https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.rename.html 	|
| Guide on reshaping data, including using `.pivot_table()` 	| https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/dev/user_guide/reshaping.html 	|
| `.pivot_table()` documentation 	| https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.pivot_table.html 	|
| `.cut()` documentation 	| https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.cut.html 	|
